.\" Copyright 1999, 2000 SuSE GmbH Nuernberg, Germany
.\" Author: Thorsten Kukuk <kukuk@suse.de>
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.TH LOGIN 1 "17 May 2000" "Cygwin Login 1.2" "Cygwin Manual"
.SH NAME
login \- sign on
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "login [ " name " ]"
.br
.B "login \-p"
.br
.BR "login \-h " hostname
.br
.BR "login \-f " name
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B login
is used when signing onto a system.
If an argument is not given,
.B login
prompts for the username.

If the file
.I /etc/nologin
exists, the content of the file is written to stdout and nobody
is permitted to log into the system.

Random administrative things, such as setting the UID and GID of the
tty are performed.  The TERM environment variable is preserved, if it
exists (other environment variables are preserved if the
.B \-p
option is used).  Then the HOME, PATH, SHELL, MAIL, and LOGNAME
environment variables are set.  PATH is not changed from the
system PATH if it's found. Otherwise PATH defaults to
.I /usr/local/bin:/bin:/usr/bin.

Authentication is done via SAM database on NT/W2K systems and
via 56 bit DES passwords in
.BR /etc/passwd ,
on W9X systems.

The user's shell is then started. If no shell is specified for the
user in
.BR /etc/passwd ,
then
.B /bin/sh
is used.  If there is no directory specified in
.IR /etc/passwd ,
then
.I /
is used (the home directory is checked for the
.I .hushlogin
file described above).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p
Used by
.BR getty (8)
to tell
.B login
not to destroy the environment. This is disabled in the Cygwin version.
.TP
.B \-f
Used to skip a second login authentication.  This specifically does
.B not
work for root.
.TP
.B \-h
Used by other servers (i.e.,
.BR telnetd (8))
to pass the name of the remote host to
.B login
so that it may be placed in utmp and wtmp.

.SH FILES
.nf
.I /var/run/utmp
.I /var/log/wtmp
.I /var/log/lastlog
.I /etc/passwd
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR passwd (1),
.BR passwd (5),
.BR environ (7),
.BR telnetd (8).
.SH BUGS

Perhaps.

.SH AUTHOR
Derived from BSD login 5.32.1.1 (1/28/89) and ported to Cygwin
by Sergey Okhapkin (sos@prospect.com.ru)
.br
Added new features: Corinna Vinschen <vinschen@cygnus.com>
